# IMPROVED PREDICTION OF THE MGMT METHYLATION STATUS OF GLIOBLASTOMA USING GENETIC ALGORITHM-BASED MACHINE LEARNING
O6-Methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter methylation was shown in many studies to be an important predictive biomarker for temozolomide (TMZ) resistance and poor progression free survival in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) patients. However, identifying the MGMT methylation status using molecular techniques remains challenging due to technical limitations, such as the inability to obtain tumor specimens, exorbitant prices for detection, and the high complexity of intralesional heterogeneity. To overcome these difficulties, we aimed to test the feasibility of using a novel radiomics-based machine learning (ML) model to preoperatively and noninvasively predict the MGMT methylation status. In this study, GBM patients with corresponding molecular information whose MGMT methylation status had previously been determined (obtained from The Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA) database) were enrolled in our retrospective analysis. Radiomics features extracted from multimodal images from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) had undergone a two-stage feature selection method, including an eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) followed by a genetic algorithm (GA)-based wrapper model for extracting the most meaningful radiomics features for predictive purposes. The results suggested that the GA-based wrapper model achieved the high performance with a sensitivity of 0.894, specificity of 0.966, and accuracy of 0.925 for predicting the MGMT methylation status in GBM. Testing the model on an independent low-grade glioma (LGG) dataset also reached a sensitivity 0.780, specificity 0.620, and accuracy 0.750. The performance indicated that our model may potentially confer significant improvements in prognosis and treatment responses in GBM patients.
# Dependency
Python 3
# Workflow:
## Input the training dataset (training dataset.csv)
## Running the Random Forest-GA model (script.py)
## The model can be tested using Test dataset.csv

